.TH hsh 1 "1 May 2024" "1.0" "hsh manual page"

.SH NAME

simple\_shell (hsh.c - line command interpreter in UNIX)

.SH SYNOPSIS

$ /hsh [options] [file]

.SH DESCRIPTION

simple\_shell (hsh.c) is a UNIX command language interpreter that executes commands read from the standard input or from a file, made in C language.

.B

 ./hsh  It's a simple UNIX command line interpreter.

.SH RETURN VALUE

The program returns the status of the last executed command (0 if no command was executed), the number means exit fail situation.

.SH PATH

It searches in the PATH environment variable to find the executable program file location.

.SH EXAMPLES OF INPUT COMMAND

ls                      list directory contents

ls -l                   list in long format file system type

pwd                     will display the present working directory

rm                      will remove a file

mv                      will move or rename one or more files or directories

cp                      Will copy SOURCE to DEST

exit                    cause normal process termination

ctrl + d, ctrl + c      stop the prompt input.

.SH COMMAND EXECUTION

After a command has been split into words, if it results in a simple command and an optional list of arguments, the following actions are taken:

* If the command name contains no slashes, the shell attempts to locate it. If there exists a shell function by that name, that function is invoked.

* If the name does not match a function, the shell searches for it in the list of shell builtins. If a match is found, that builtin is invoked.

* If the search is successful, or if the command name contains one or more slashes, the shell executes the named program in a child process.

* If this execution succeeds or fails, the status is returned.

.SH EXIT STATUS

The exit status of an executed command is the value returned by the wait() system call. Exit statuses fall between 0 and 255, though, as explained below, the shell may use values above 125 specially. Exit statuses from shell builtins and compound commands are also limited to this range.

Under certain circumstances, the shell will use special values to indicate specific failure modes.

.SH SEE ALSO

Bash Reference Manual, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey
The Gnu Readline Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey
The Gnu History Library, Brian Fox and Chet Ramey
Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX) Part 2: Shell and Utilities, IEEE
Man sh()

.SH BUGS REPORT

Please contact the authors.

.SH AUTHORS

Sayyara Yusupova
Aysu Mammadova

